Does hill climbing have any other
problems we should worry about?
>> Suppose we start at the left edge
of the graph, using small steps
we gradually climb higher until
we get to the shoulder here.
However, if we stop when we no
longer see a way to improve we
can get stuck at this shoulder.
>> So you mean we get to this point and
if the step size is small enough
we never see the sudden
increase in gradient here?
>> Yup.
For flat areas how do we
know which way to travel?
If we just choose a direction randomly
we can wander on this plateau for
a while.
The code needs to return
a result at some point.
So how many times in a row should we
allow a zero improvement in score before
we stop?
We could just keep going in the
direction of the last positive gradient.
But with a small enough step size,
we can easily think we are not improving
and the algorithm should stop.